README.md, before:

# vsc-ruby-rails README

Simple extension for Visual Studio Code (VSC / VSCode) that adds sample Ruby and Ruby on Rails (RoR) features.

![features](https://github.com/iRoninIT/vsc-ruby-rails/raw/main/images/commands-rails.png)
![features](https://github.com/iRoninIT/vsc-ruby-rails/raw/main/images/commands-ruby.png)

## Features

Currently implemented features (as tasks or commands):

### Generic features

- Install Tasks (command only)

### Ruby on Rails (RoR) features

- Install Rails Debug Config (command only) via `Add Rails Debug Config` command
- Install rdbg VSC launch config (command only) via `Install rdbg VSC launch config` command
- Start Rails Server with `bin/rails server` via `Rails: Server` task
- Start Rails Console with `bin/rails c` via `Rails: Console` task
- Start Rails: `bin/dev` (assuming it's already present) via `Rails: Dev` task
- Start Rails debug mode with: `bin/debug` (available after running `Add Rails Debug Config`) via `Rails: Debug` task
- Show Rails Routes with: `bin/rails routes` via `Rails: Routes` task
- Clear Rails cache with: `bin/rails runner 'Rails.cache.clear'` via `Rails: Clear cache` task
- Run Rails DB Create with: `bin/rails db:create` via `Rails: DB Create` task
- Run Rails DB Seed with: `bin/rails db:seed` via `Rails: DB Seed` task
- Run Rails DB Migrate with: `bin/rails db:migrate` via `Rails: DB Migrate` task
- Run Rails DB Console with: `bin/rails dbconsole` via `Rails: DB Console` task
- Run Rails DB Reset with: `bin/rails db:reset` via `Rails: DB Reset` task
- Run Rails DB Drop with: `bin/rails db:drop` via `Rails: DB Drop` task
- Run Rails Test with: `bin/rails test` via `Rails: Test` task
- Run Rails Assets Precompile with: `bin/rails assets:precompile` via `Rails: Assets Precompile` task
- Run Rails Log Tail with: `tail -f log/development.log` via `Rails: Log Tail` task

### Ruby features

- Run Ruby File via `Ruby: Run file` command
- Show Ruby Version via `Ruby: Show version` command
- Bundle Install via `Ruby: Bundle install` command
- Install Debug Gem via `Ruby: Install debug gem` command

### TailwindCSS features

- Install TailwindCSS with `bin/rails tailwindcss:install` via `TailwindCSS: Install` task
- Build TailwindCSS with `bin/rails tailwindcss:build` via `TailwindCSS: Build` task
- Build TailwindCSS for debug with `bin/rails tailwindcss:build[debug]` via `TailwindCSS: Build [Debug]` task
- Watch TailwindCSS with `bin/rails tailwindcss:watch` via `TailwindCSS: Watch` task
- Watch TailwindCSS for debug with `bin/rails tailwindcss:watch[debug]` via `TailwindCSS: Watch [Debug]` task
- Watch TailwindCSS with polling with `bin/rails tailwindcss:watch[poll]` via `TailwindCSS: Watch [Poll]` task
- Watch TailwindCSS always with `bin/rails tailwindcss:watch[always]` via `TailwindCSS: Watch [Always]` task

Easily add new tasks and commands by modifying `rubyTasks.json`

### Install Tasks

Creates or extends `.vscode/tasks.json` with all this [extensions tasks](https://github.com/iRoninIT/vsc-ruby-rails/blob/main/src/rubyTasks.json).

It only adds tasks that are not already present in the file by comparing the `command`.

Unfortunately the tasks added dynamically are not visible when you open `Tasks: Run Tasks`, only in `Show All Tasks`. Installing tasks makes them more accessible.

The advantage of the extension tasks (over the installed) is that they are available only if their conditions are met (e.g., if `bin/rails` exists for `Run Rails Server`, etc.).

### Install rdbg VSC launch config

Creates `.vscode/launch.json` if not present.
Adds the following config to `.vscode/launch.json` if not present.

With `debug` gem installed (`Install Debug Gem` command) you can enable debugging for Ruby scripts and RoR apps by simply placing breakpoints in VSC and running `Attach with rdbg`.

```json
{
  "type": "rdbg",
  "name": "Debug current file with rdbg",
  "request": "launch",
  "script": "${file}",
  "args": [],
  "askParameters": true
},
{
  "type": "rdbg",
  "name": "Attach with rdbg",
  "request": "attach"
}
```

### Add Rails Debug Config

Assuming `bin/dev` and `Procfile.dev` exist—for example, when RoR app has Docker or devcontainers configured.

Duplicates `bin/dev` to `bin/debug` and makes it execute `Procfile.debug` instead of `Procfile.dev`.

Duplicates `Procfile.dev` to `Procfile.debug` and adds `rdbg` to the `web` process.

### Start Rails Server

Starts Ruby on Rails server.

```bash
bin/rails server
```

### Start Rails Console

Starts Ruby on Rails console.

```bash
bin/rails c
```

### Run Ruby File

Runs the current Ruby file in the terminal.

```bash
ruby ${file}
```

### Bundle Install

Runs `bundle install` in the terminal.

```bash
bundle install
```

### Install Debug Gem

Installs the `debug` gem in the terminal.

```bash
gem install debug
```

### Show Ruby Version

Shows the Ruby version in the terminal.

```bash
ruby -v
```

Commit message:

Add `Rails: Fix AI timestamps in db migrations` - Renames user selected Rails DB migration files to ensure timestamps in the filenames conform to the Ruby on Rails format (YYYYMMDDHHmmss) and match the file creation time. Useful for migrations created with AI where the timestamp is usually in the past.

README.md, after:

# vsc-ruby-rails README

Simple extension for Visual Studio Code (VSC / VSCode) that adds sample Ruby and Ruby on Rails (RoR) features.

![Fix AI Timestamps in DB Migrations](https://github.com/iRoninIT/vsc-ruby-rails/raw/main/images/fix-ai-timestamps.png)
![Rails Commands](https://github.com/iRoninIT/vsc-ruby-rails/raw/main/images/commands-rails.png)
![Ruby Commands](https://github.com/iRoninIT/vsc-ruby-rails/raw/main/images/commands-ruby.png)
![TailwindCSS Commands](https://github.com/iRoninIT/vsc-ruby-rails/raw/main/images/tailwind-commands.png)

## Features

Currently implemented features (as tasks or commands):

### Ruby on Rails (RoR) features

- Install Rails Debug Config (command only) via `Add Rails Debug Config` command
- Install rdbg VSC launch config (command only) via `Install rdbg VSC launch config` command
- Start Rails Server with `bin/rails server` via `Rails: Server` task
- Start Rails Console with `bin/rails c` via `Rails: Console` task
- Start Rails: `bin/dev` (assuming it's already present) via `Rails: Dev` task
- Start Rails debug mode with: `bin/debug` (available after running `Add Rails Debug Config`) via `Rails: Debug` task
- Show Rails Routes with: `bin/rails routes` via `Rails: Routes` task
- Clear Rails cache with: `bin/rails runner 'Rails.cache.clear'` via `Rails: Clear cache` task
- Run Rails DB Create with: `bin/rails db:create` via `Rails: DB Create` task
- Run Rails DB Seed with: `bin/rails db:seed` via `Rails: DB Seed` task
- Run Rails DB Migrate with: `bin/rails db:migrate` via `Rails: DB Migrate` task
- Run Rails DB Console with: `bin/rails dbconsole` via `Rails: DB Console` task
- Run Rails DB Reset with: `bin/rails db:reset` via `Rails: DB Reset` task
- Run Rails DB Drop with: `bin/rails db:drop` via `Rails: DB Drop` task
- Run Rails Test with: `bin/rails test` via `Rails: Test` task
- Run Rails Assets Precompile with: `bin/rails assets:precompile` via `Rails: Assets Precompile` task
- Run Rails Log Tail with: `tail -f log/development.log` via `Rails: Log Tail` task
- Fix timestamps in Rails DB migrations files with `Rails: Fix AI timestamps in db migrations` task. Renames user selected Rails DB migration files to ensure timestamps in the filenames conform to the Ruby on Rails format (YYYYMMDDHHmmss) and match the file creation time. Useful for migrations created with AI where the timestamp is usually in the past.

### Ruby features

- Run Ruby File via `Ruby: Run file` command
- Show Ruby Version via `Ruby: Show version` command
- Bundle Install via `Ruby: Bundle install` command
- Install Debug Gem via `Ruby: Install debug gem` command

### TailwindCSS features

- Install TailwindCSS with `bin/rails tailwindcss:install` via `TailwindCSS: Install` task
- Build TailwindCSS with `bin/rails tailwindcss:build` via `TailwindCSS: Build` task
- Build TailwindCSS for debug with `bin/rails tailwindcss:build[debug]` via `TailwindCSS: Build [Debug]` task
- Watch TailwindCSS with `bin/rails tailwindcss:watch` via `TailwindCSS: Watch` task
- Watch TailwindCSS for debug with `bin/rails tailwindcss:watch[debug]` via `TailwindCSS: Watch [Debug]` task
- Watch TailwindCSS with polling with `bin/rails tailwindcss:watch[poll]` via `TailwindCSS: Watch [Poll]` task
- Watch TailwindCSS always with `bin/rails tailwindcss:watch[always]` via `TailwindCSS: Watch [Always]` task

Easily add new tasks and commands by modifying `rubyTasks.json`

### Generic features

- Install Tasks (command only)

### Install Tasks

Creates or extends `.vscode/tasks.json` with all this [extensions tasks](https://github.com/iRoninIT/vsc-ruby-rails/blob/main/src/rubyTasks.json).

It only adds tasks that are not already present in the file by comparing the `command`.

Unfortunately, the tasks added dynamically are not visible when you open `Tasks: Run Tasks`, only in `Show All Tasks`. Installing tasks makes them more accessible.

The advantage of the extension tasks (over the installed) is that they are available only if their conditions are met (e.g., if `bin/rails` exists for `Run Rails Server`, etc.).

### Install rdbg VSC launch config

Creates `.vscode/launch.json` if not present.
Adds the following config to `.vscode/launch.json` if not present.

With `debug` gem installed (`Install Debug Gem` command), you can enable debugging for Ruby scripts and RoR apps by simply placing breakpoints in VSC and running `Attach with rdbg`.

```json
{
  "type": "rdbg",
  "name": "Debug current file with rdbg",
  "request": "launch",
  "script": "${file}",
  "args": [],
  "askParameters": true
},
{
  "type": "rdbg",
  "name": "Attach with rdbg",
  "request": "attach"
}
```

### Add Rails Debug Config

Assuming `bin/dev` and `Procfile.dev` exist—for example, when RoR app has Docker or devcontainers configured.

Duplicates `bin/dev` to `bin/debug` and makes it execute `Procfile.debug` instead of `Procfile.dev`.

Duplicates `Procfile.dev` to `Procfile.debug` and adds `rdbg` to the `web` process.

### Start Rails Server

Starts Ruby on Rails server.

```bash
bin/rails server
```

### Start Rails Console

Starts Ruby on Rails console.

```bash
bin/rails c
```

### Run Ruby File

Runs the current Ruby file in the terminal.

```bash
ruby ${file}
```

### Bundle Install

Runs `bundle install` in the terminal.

```bash
bundle install
```

### Install Debug Gem

Installs the `debug` gem in the terminal.

```bash
gem install debug
```

### Show Ruby Version

Shows the Ruby version in the terminal.

```bash
ruby -v
```
